Accounts: Add multi-tenancy docs (#18570)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/multi-tenancy/org-creation.mdx

---
title: "Step 1: Create accounts and organizations" 
metaDescription: "Create organizations and accounts in the multi-tenency structure"
freshnessValidatedDate: 2024-09-05
---

Multi-tenancy allows you to set up any number of managed organizations in New Relic that are related to a primary, managing  organization. The first step in setting up multi-tenancy is to create accounts and organizations. To do this, you'll use various NerdGraph mutations, depending on the organization structure you're creating:

* [High touch](#high-touch): Managed service providers typically use this approach to onboard customers who want to access New Relic directly.  

* [Low touch](#low-touch): Enterprise businesses use this approach to create new organizations and accounts for business units or subsidiaries in New Relic. 
    

> Not sure which approach to take? See [Overview of multi-tenancy approaches](https://docs-preview.newrelic.com/docs/multi-tenancy/intro-to-multi-tenancy/#approaches).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not sure which approach to take? See [Overview of multi-tenancy approaches](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/multi-tenancy/intro-to-multi-tenancy#approaches).  
```

<Callout variant="tip"> 
  If you are a multi-tenant customer on consumption pricing, ingest and user counts will be aggregated across your managed organizations. This aggregate data is visible only to the managing organization. 
</Callout>

## Requirements [#requirements]

As a reminder, to use the multi-tenancy feature, make sure you've completed the following for your organization:

> 1. Get Approval: Contact your account representative to confirm your organization has been added to multi-tenancy. Once approved, you receive the multi-tenant entitlement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get approval: Contact your account representative to confirm your organization has been added to multi-tenancy. Once approved, you receive the multi-tenant entitlement.
```

To create accounts that you plan to share with managed organizations, execute the following mutation:

```graphql
mutation {
  accountManagementCreateAccount(
    managedAccount: { name: "NEW_ACCOUNT_NAME", regionCode: "eu01" }
  ) {
    managedAccount {
      id
      name
      regionCode
    }
  }
}
```

If you make a mistake and need to rename your account, see our [NerdGraph tutorial](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/manage-accounts-nerdgraph/#rename-accounts). 

Once you create the accounts you want to share, you're ready to create organizations.
  </Collapser> 

  <Collapser
      id="high-touch-org"
      title="High touch: Create an organization"
  >
When you create an organization in a high-touch structure, you will often want to share an account you're managing in your own organization with the users of a managed organization. To create an organization and share an account at the same time, run a mutation similar to this:

```graphql
mutation {
  createOrganization(
    customerId: "CC-1234567890",
    organization!: {name!: "New Customer Organization Name"},
    sharedAccount: {accountId!: 1234567, limitingRoleId: 325}
  ) {
    jobId
  }
}
```

> If you don't initially want to share an account with a managed organization, you can always use the `organizationCreateSharedAccount` mutation later. For details about how to use that mutation, see [Step 3: Share accounts](/docs/multi-tenancy/acct-creation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't initially want to share an account with a managed organization, you can always use the `organizationCreateSharedAccount` mutation later. For details about how to use that mutation, see [Step 3: Share accounts](/docs/accounts/accounts-billing/account-structure/multi-tenancy/share-accounts).
```
